PANTRY.md, before:

# NB-Curator's Pantry, Shelves, and Cans

## Overview

NB-Curator uses two primary storage locations for information:

- **nbc-live**: This directory stores the isolated curator and target
    environments during initial installation.  Environments are
    archived to pantry shelves and later unarchived to restore them in
    a live environment.

- **nbc-pantry**: This directory contains a collection of
    **shelves**. Each shelf holds shared, read-only static assets
    (notebooks, data, etc.) and one or more micromamba-environment
    archives referred to as **cans**.

While all users have their own nbc-live directories, only hub admins
and team admins have write access to shared pantries. Creating a new
shelf in the pantry is how you prepare for events like webinars or
conferences, or set up shared team environments.

The original intent of nb-curator was to empower notebook repo
curators to develop notebooks and the exact environment requirements
needed to run them, then to automatically inject these into existing
science-platform-images build system which has had the infrastructure
required to do automatic notebook testing for years.

## NBC-Live Directory Structure

The **NB-Curator Live Directory** is relatively simple and contains the following key components:

- **micromamba**: The single-file binary for the micromamba program.
- **envs**:  This directory stores micromamba-environment archives as individual subdirectories.
- **cache**:  This directory stores micromamba cache files for faster access during installations.
- **envs/pkgs**: This directory caches `uv` packages for faster access during installations.
- **temps**: This directory stores files generated by nb-curator to support installation tools.

## NBC-Pantry Structure

The **NB-Curator Pantry** is a collection of staged, notebook-centric
analysis environments, each referred to as a "shelf".  Each shelf
provides a complete environment for running a specific set of
notebooks. In essence, a shelf has everything which would normally go
into a webbinar or conference setup: environments, notebooks, data,
etc.

### Shelf Structure

#### Live Assets

Each shelf contains several read-only assets intended for shared use by all users of the shelf. These include:

- **Notebook Repo Clones**: Jupyter notebooks specifically designed to work with the shelf's Python environment.
- **Notebook Input Data**: Data directories and files used as read-only inputs to the notebooks.
- **Environment Variables**: Configuration settings specific to the shelf.
- **Manifest**: TBD file recording things like

#### Frozen Assets

Each shelf also contains frozen assets, designed to be unpacked onto faster storage media for quicker access. These include:

- **Cans**: A compressed archive of a single, curated environment.
    Because cans are single compressed files, they unpack very
    quickly, even when transferred from EFS.  This speed is crucial
    for reducing installation times during both curation and later
    operations. Using cans enables faster installations on local
    storage compared to EFS.

### Pantry Scenarios / Configurations

Depending on how two environment variables (**NBC_ROOT** and
**NBC_PANTRY**) are set, the nbc-live runtime and nbc-pantry shelf
archive can be stored if different locations,  with the intent that
nbc-live be stored on fast but potentially ephemeral storage,  and
that nbc-pantry be stored on persistent storage.  With this architecture,
it is the role of nbc-live to create and run curated environment,
but it is the role of the pantry to save and restore archived mamba
environment binaries

in containerized environments, the pantry is
typically stored on long-lived storage and the curator runtime and
installed environments are nominally on fast but volatile storage.

#### Personal Installations on Laptop

For personal installations on a laptop, for both curation, live environments, and the pantry, nominally are 
stored in fast,  non-volatile storage. This is convenient both for environment and notebook development,
and also to work out the shelving requirements.

```/bin/bash
NBC_ROOT=${HOME}/.nbc-live
NBC_PANTRY=${HOME}/.nbc-pantry
```

#### Science Platform System Installations

Science Platform System Installations typically have long-lived storage available for the pantry, but 
the curator runtime and installed environments are nominally on fast but volatile storage at /opt/nbc-live.
There are two major workflows, creating a pantry shelf for a set of notebooks and associated environment,
and later unarchiving shelved environments to nbc-live automatically. Two benefits of this approach are
that an admin or curator can work directly on the platform and automatically prepare the shelf based on
the curator YAML spec

```/bin/bash
NBC_ROOT=/opt/nbc-live  (located in "image" space)
NBC_PANTRY=/teams/users/nbc-pantry
```

#### Science Platform Team Installations

NBC_ROOT=/opt/nbc-live  (located in "image" space)
NBC_PANTRY=/teams/<your-team>/nbc-pantry

#### Science Platform Personal Environments

NBC_ROOT=/opt/nbc-live  (located in "image" space)
NBC_PANTRY=${HOME}/.nbc-pantry


### Deployment Scenarios

#### Install from spec inputs / curate

#### Install from spec outputs / reproduce

#### Re-install from Can / binary archive

Commit message:

Renamed files and contents of files for curator -> wrangler.

PANTRY.md, after:

# NB-Curator's Pantry, Shelves, and Cans

## Overview

NB-Curator uses two primary storage locations for information:

- **nbw-live**: This directory stores the isolated wrangler and target
    environments during initial installation.  Environments are
    archived to pantry shelves and later unarchived to restore them in
    a live environment.

- **nbw-pantry**: This directory contains a collection of
    **shelves**. Each shelf holds shared, read-only static assets
    (notebooks, data, etc.) and one or more micromamba-environment
    archives referred to as **cans**.

While all users have their own nbw-live directories, only hub admins
and team admins have write access to shared pantries. Creating a new
shelf in the pantry is how you prepare for events like webinars or
conferences, or set up shared team environments.

The original intent of nb-wrangler was to empower notebook repo
wranglers to develop notebooks and the exact environment requirements
needed to run them, then to automatically inject these into existing
science-platform-images build system which has had the infrastructure
required to do automatic notebook testing for years.

## NBW-Live Directory Structure

The **NB-Curator Live Directory** is relatively simple and contains the following key components:

- **micromamba**: The single-file binary for the micromamba program.
- **envs**:  This directory stores micromamba-environment archives as individual subdirectories.
- **cache**:  This directory stores micromamba cache files for faster access during installations.
- **envs/pkgs**: This directory caches `uv` packages for faster access during installations.
- **temps**: This directory stores files generated by nb-wrangler to support installation tools.

## NBW-Pantry Structure

The **NB-Curator Pantry** is a collection of staged, notebook-centric
analysis environments, each referred to as a "shelf".  Each shelf
provides a complete environment for running a specific set of
notebooks. In essence, a shelf has everything which would normally go
into a webbinar or conference setup: environments, notebooks, data,
etc.

### Shelf Structure

#### Live Assets

Each shelf contains several read-only assets intended for shared use by all users of the shelf. These include:

- **Notebook Repo Clones**: Jupyter notebooks specifically designed to work with the shelf's Python environment.
- **Notebook Input Data**: Data directories and files used as read-only inputs to the notebooks.
- **Environment Variables**: Configuration settings specific to the shelf.
- **Manifest**: TBD file recording things like

#### Frozen Assets

Each shelf also contains frozen assets, designed to be unpacked onto faster storage media for quicker access. These include:

- **Cans**: A compressed archive of a single, curated environment.
    Because cans are single compressed files, they unpack very
    quickly, even when transferred from EFS.  This speed is crucial
    for reducing installation times during both curation and later
    operations. Using cans enables faster installations on local
    storage compared to EFS.

### Pantry Scenarios / Configurations

Depending on how two environment variables (**NBW_ROOT** and
**NBW_PANTRY**) are set, the nbw-live runtime and nbw-pantry shelf
archive can be stored if different locations,  with the intent that
nbw-live be stored on fast but potentially ephemeral storage,  and
that nbw-pantry be stored on persistent storage.  With this architecture,
it is the role of nbw-live to create and run curated environment,
but it is the role of the pantry to save and restore archived mamba
environment binaries

in containerized environments, the pantry is
typically stored on long-lived storage and the wrangler runtime and
installed environments are nominally on fast but volatile storage.

#### Personal Installations on Laptop

For personal installations on a laptop, for both curation, live environments, and the pantry, nominally are 
stored in fast,  non-volatile storage. This is convenient both for environment and notebook development,
and also to work out the shelving requirements.

```/bin/bash
NBW_ROOT=${HOME}/.nbw-live
NBW_PANTRY=${HOME}/.nbw-pantry
```

#### Science Platform System Installations

Science Platform System Installations typically have long-lived storage available for the pantry, but 
the wrangler runtime and installed environments are nominally on fast but volatile storage at /opt/nbw-live.
There are two major workflows, creating a pantry shelf for a set of notebooks and associated environment,
and later unarchiving shelved environments to nbw-live automatically. Two benefits of this approach are
that an admin or wrangler can work directly on the platform and automatically prepare the shelf based on
the wrangler YAML spec

```/bin/bash
NBW_ROOT=/opt/nbw-live  (located in "image" space)
NBW_PANTRY=/teams/users/nbw-pantry
```

#### Science Platform Team Installations

NBW_ROOT=/opt/nbw-live  (located in "image" space)
NBW_PANTRY=/teams/<your-team>/nbw-pantry

#### Science Platform Personal Environments

NBW_ROOT=/opt/nbw-live  (located in "image" space)
NBW_PANTRY=${HOME}/.nbw-pantry


### Deployment Scenarios

#### Install from spec inputs / curate

#### Install from spec outputs / reproduce

#### Re-install from Can / binary archive
