docs/spec-format.md, before:

# Wrangler Spec Format

## Example Spec

Below is a prototype wrangler spec for TIKE in the new format:

```yaml
# Image header information
image_spec_header:
  image_name: TIKE 2025.07-beta
  deployment_name: tike
  kernel_name: tess
  display_name: TESS
  description: |
    This is a beta test of the latest TIKE packages. Use at your own risk!
  valid_on: 2025-07-02
  expires_on: 2025-10-02
  python_version: 3.11.13

# Repositories where notebooks are located
repositories:
  tike_content:
    url: https://github.com/spacetelescope/tike_content
    ref: main
  mast_notebooks:
    url: https://github.com/spacetelescope/mast_notebooks
    ref: main

# Named blocks for selecting notebooks
selected_notebooks:
  tike_lcviz:
    repo: tike_content
    root_directory: content/notebooks/lcviz-tutorial/
    include_subdirs: [ "." ]
    tests:
      papermill: false # This notebook is known to fail papermill tests
  tike_data_access:
    repo: tike_content
    root_directory: content/notebooks/data-access/
    include_subdirs: [ "." ]
  mast_kepler:
    repo: mast_notebooks
    root_directory: notebooks/Kepler
    include_subdirs:
      - identifying_transiting_planet_signals
      - instrumental_noise_4_electronic_noise

extra_mamba_packages:
  - pip
extra_pip_packages:
  - boto3

system:
  spec_version: 1.0
  archive_format: .tar
  spi:
    repo: https://github.com/spacetelescope/science-platform-images.git
    ref: main
```

## Sections of the Wrangler Spec

### **image_spec_header**
This section provides metadata about the image and Python environment.
   - **image_name**: A name for your image (e.g., `TIKE 2025.07-beta`).
   - **deployment_name**: The deployment name, which can be `tike`, `roman`, `jwebbinar`, or `wrangler`.
   - **kernel_name**: The kernel name, currently `tess`, `roman-cal`, or `masterclass` for SPI injection,  anything for wrangler.
   - **display_name**: The name as it will appear in the JupyterLab kernel selection list (e.g., `TESS`).
   - **description**: A brief description of the image and its purpose.
   - **valid_on** and **expires_on**: Dates specifying when the image becomes valid and when it expires, respectively.
   - **python_version**: The version of Python supported by the image (e.g., `3.11.13`).

### **repositories**
This section defines a dictionary of the git repositories that contain notebooks. Each repository is given a short, memorable name that will be used to refer to it in the `selected_notebooks` section.

Each entry in `repositories` has the following fields:
- **url**: The URL of the git repository.
- **ref**: The git branch, tag, or commit hash to use (defaults to `main`).

### **selected_notebooks**

This section is a dictionary of "selection blocks". Each block has a unique name and defines a set of rules for selecting notebooks from the declared repositories. This is the heart of the wrangler spec as it also implies Python package (per-notebook `requirements.txt`) and data requirements (global per-repo `refdata_dependencies.yaml`).

Each selection block has the following fields:

  - **repo**: The name of a repository defined in the `repositories` section.
  - **root_directory**: Defines the root directory within the repository where the notebooks are stored.
  - **include_subdirs**: A list of subdirectories or regex patterns under `root_directory` to include.
  - **exclude_subdirs**: A list of subdirectories or regex patterns under `root_directory` to exclude.
  - **tests**: An optional dictionary to specify test configurations. For example, `tests: { papermill: false }` will disable the default `papermill` test for notebooks in this block.

The combination of `root_directory`, `include_subdirs`, and `exclude_subdirs` is flexible and allows different selection styles:

1. Pick notebook directories directly under `root_directory` as individual `include_subdirs` lines.  This avoids the clutter of repeating `root_directory` with each notebook in an otherwise simple explicit list.
2. To keep things simple, leave `root_directory` as an empty string and just include the full path from the root of the repo to the notebook directory in `include_subdirs`.
3. Use regular expressions in `include_subdirs` and `exclude_subdirs` to select notebooks based on patterns. For example, `include_subdirs: [".*"]` will include all notebooks under the `root_directory`.

### **extra_mamba_packages**
A list of additional mamba packages required by your environment but not specified by the notebook repos.

### **extra_pip_packages**
A list of additional pip packages required by your environment.

### **system**
This section contains specifications for the system environment. It is updated by nb-wrangler automatically and should rarely need curator updates.

   - **spec_version**: The version of the specification being used (e.g., `1.0`).
   - **archive_format**: The format used for archiving environments (e.g., `.tar`).
   - **spi**: A dictionary specifying the Science Platform Images (SPI) repository to use.
     - **repo**: The URL of the git repository.
     - **ref**: (Optional) The branch, tag, or commit hash to use. Defaults to the repository's default branch.
   - **spec_sha256**: An sha256 hash of the spec when it was last saved, for integrity checking. It is added by `nb-wrangler`.

Commit message:

Refactoring bug fixes. Updated docs some. Added draft sample-specs/roman-20.1.0.yaml

docs/spec-format.md, after:

# Wrangler Spec Format

## Example Spec

Below is a prototype wrangler spec for TIKE in the new format:

```yaml
# Image header information
image_spec_header:
  image_name: TIKE 2025.07-beta
  deployment_name: tike
  kernel_name: tess
  display_name: TESS
  description: |
    This is a beta test of the latest TIKE packages. Use at your own risk!
  valid_on: 2025-07-02
  expires_on: 2025-10-02
  python_version: 3.11.13

# Repositories where notebooks are located
repositories:
  tike_content:
    url: https://github.com/spacetelescope/tike_content
    ref: main
  mast_notebooks:
    url: https://github.com/spacetelescope/mast_notebooks
    ref: main

# Named blocks for selecting notebooks
selected_notebooks:
  tike_lcviz:
    repo: tike_content
    root_directory: content/notebooks/lcviz-tutorial/
    include_subdirs: [ "." ]
    tests:
      papermill: false # This notebook is known to fail papermill tests
  tike_data_access:
    repo: tike_content
    root_directory: content/notebooks/data-access/
    include_subdirs: [ "." ]
  mast_kepler:
    repo: mast_notebooks
    root_directory: notebooks/Kepler
    include_subdirs:
      - identifying_transiting_planet_signals
      - instrumental_noise_4_electronic_noise

extra_mamba_packages:
  - pip
extra_pip_packages:
  - boto3

system:
  spec_version: 1.0
  archive_format: .tar
  spi:
    repo: https://github.com/spacetelescope/science-platform-images.git
    ref: main
```

## Sections of the Wrangler Spec

### **image_spec_header**
This section provides metadata about the image and Python environment.
   - **image_name**: A name for your image (e.g., `TIKE 2025.07-beta`).
   - **deployment_name**: The deployment name, which can be `tike`, `roman`, `jwebbinar`, or `wrangler`.
   - **kernel_name**: The kernel name, currently `tess`, `roman-cal`, or `masterclass` for SPI injection,  anything for wrangler.
   - **display_name**: The name as it will appear in the JupyterLab kernel selection list (e.g., `TESS`).
   - **description**: A brief description of the image and its purpose.
   - **valid_on** and **expires_on**: Dates specifying when the image becomes valid and when it expires, respectively.
   - **python_version**: The version of Python supported by the image (e.g., `3.11.13`). This is used for simple definition environments and is mutually exclusive with `environment_spec` or an inline mamba spec.

### **repositories**
This section defines a dictionary of the git repositories that contain notebooks. Each repository is given a short, memorable name that will be used to refer to it in the `selected_notebooks` section.

Each entry in `repositories` has the following fields:
- **url**: The URL of the git repository.
- **ref**: The git branch, tag, or commit hash to use (defaults to `main`).

### **dev_overrides**
This optional top-level section allows developers to temporarily override any top-level sections of the spec for development purposes without modifying the core production-ready configuration.

When the `--dev` CLI flag is used (or implicitly activated for curation workflows), `nb-wrangler` will apply these overrides. When `--finalize-dev-overrides` is used, this section is removed.

The structure of `dev_overrides` mirrors the top-level sections it intends to override. For example, to override `repositories` (including `url` for forked development) and `system.spi`:

```yaml
dev_overrides:
  repositories:
    your_repo_name:
      url: https://github.com/your-fork/your_repo_name # Override URL for forked development
      ref: your-dev-branch
    another_repo:
      ref: another-dev-ref
  system:
    spi:
      ref: your-spi-dev-branch
```


### **selected_notebooks**

This section is a dictionary of "selection blocks". Each block has a unique name and defines a set of rules for selecting notebooks from the declared repositories. This is the heart of the wrangler spec as it also implies Python package (per-notebook `requirements.txt`) and data requirements (global per-repo `refdata_dependencies.yaml`).

Each selection block has the following fields:

  - **repo**: The name of a repository defined in the `repositories` section.
  - **root_directory**: Defines the root directory within the repository where the notebooks are stored.
  - **include_subdirs**: A list of subdirectories or regex patterns under `root_directory` to include.
  - **exclude_subdirs**: A list of subdirectories or regex patterns under `root_directory` to exclude.
  - **tests**: An optional dictionary to specify test configurations. For example, `tests: { papermill: false }` will disable the default `papermill` test for notebooks in this block.

The combination of `root_directory`, `include_subdirs`, and `exclude_subdirs` is flexible and allows different selection styles:

1. Pick notebook directories directly under `root_directory` as individual `include_subdirs` lines.  This avoids the clutter of repeating `root_directory` with each notebook in an otherwise simple explicit list.
2. To keep things simple, leave `root_directory` as an empty string and just include the full path from the root of the repo to the notebook directory in `include_subdirs`.
3. Use regular expressions in `include_subdirs` and `exclude_subdirs` to select notebooks based on patterns. For example, `include_subdirs: [".*"]` will include all notebooks under the `root_directory`.

### **extra_mamba_packages**
A list of additional mamba packages required by your environment but not specified by the notebook repos.

### **extra_pip_packages**
A list of additional pip packages required by your environment.

### **system**
This section contains specifications for the system environment. It is updated by nb-wrangler automatically and should rarely need curator updates.

   - **spec_version**: The version of the specification being used (e.g., `1.0`).
   - **archive_format**: The format used for archiving environments (e.g., `.tar`).
   - **spi**: A dictionary specifying the Science Platform Images (SPI) repository to use.
     - **repo**: The URL of the git repository.
     - **ref**: (Optional) The branch, tag, or commit hash to use. Defaults to the repository's default branch.
   - **spec_sha256**: An sha256 hash of the spec when it was last saved, for integrity checking. It is added by `nb-wrangler`.
